# ModelDoc - ML Pipeline Diagnostic Framework

### Brief Description

The framework accepts both tabular (.csv) and image (.png) datasets along with user configurations. Executing exploratory data analysis with data preparation. Stage 1 performs four major data-controlled perturbations including fault value injection, class imbalance, noise injection and image blur + brightness enhancement. Stage 2 performs training variation experiments including seed, data size, and hyperparameter variations. Then in stage 3 models are retrained and calculate the uncertainty by using MC Dropout and Deep Ensembles. Model predictions are explained by using SHAP, LIME, and Grad-CAM. Results are evaluated using UQ and XAI thresholds and assigned flags by the system. Finally, the report and the recommendations are generated by the framework and saved on the local machine along with its visualisation charts.

### How to Install

Clone the repository:
https://github.com/KivinduAttanayakeNorthumbria/ml-pipeline-diagnostics-framework

Create a virtual environment and activate:
1. python -m venv .venv
2. .venv\Scripts\activate

Install dependencies:

1. pip install -r requirements.txt

Configurations:
1. Edit the config/experiment_config.yaml according to your datasets.

### How to Run
1. Place tabular dataset(.csv only) in data/raw/ folder.
2. Place image dataset (.png with test and train folder).
3. Update config file.
4. Run notebooks sequentially.

### Technology and Tools
1. Python 3.10
2. PyTorch  2.10.0
3. scikit-learn
4. XGBoost
5. SHAP
6. LIME
7. pytorch-grad-cam
8. pandas,numpy,matplotlib,seaborn

NOTE:
This was tested on RTX 5070 (Blackwell architecture) which required nightly Pytorch as stable releases do not yet support for sm_120

Author:

Kivindu Attanayake
MSc Data Science, Northumbria University